# Mapping of PB2 mutations conferring resistance to pimodivir

Authors: Shirleen Soh, Keara Malone, and Rachel Eguia in the [Jesse Bloom lab](https://research.fhcrc.org/bloom/en.html).

## Overview

We performed deep mutational scanning of avian influenza PB2 to map resistance mutations to pimodivir. The experiments used the PB2 mutant virus library passaged first described in [Soh et al., 2019](https://elifesciences.org/articles/45079). The mutant libraries used here correspond to the three replicate libraries passaged on A549 cells in this paper. The replicate libraries were selected in A549 cells in the presence or absence of pimodivir. The resulting viral variants were then deep sequenced to quantify the frequency of each mutation in each condition. Wildtype plasmid DNA was also sequenced to calculate the sequencing error rate.

## Organization

### Running the analysis
The analysis is in the Python Jupyter notebook [analysis_nb.ipynb].
You can run this notebook by executing the bash script [run_nb.bash](run_nb.bash).
To run on the Hutch cluster, use:

    sbatch -c 16 -p largenode --mem=150000 run_nb.bash

### Subdirectories

* [./data/](./data/) contains input data for this analysis.

* [./fastq/](./fastq/) contains the deep mutational scanning data.

* [./results/](./results/) contains results generated by analysis of deep mutational scanning experiment. Most results are not tracked on GitHub, except for key output files described as follows: 

    * The [./results/codoncounts/](results/codoncounts) subdirectory has the counts of each codon from the deep sequencing data in each condition.
 
    * The [./results/diffsel/](results/diffsel/) subdirectory has the differential selection values of each amino acid under selection by pimodivir. 